Final Project Report - Sanchez

This project was a blast, being able to learn a new language was a lot of fun and I think that being able to explore things that I was intersted in made it very enjoyable. Learning Swift has opened new doors for me that I may want to explore down the road for my career and in doing this project, it has enabled me to start a protfolio to show potential future employers. 

There were four big milestones to this project. The first was completing a Udacity course, this gave me a strong foundation that enabled me to explore some more interesting and fun projects through swift. The next was completing the weather application in swift. This one was interesting as it was the first full application I built. The tutorial for it was good, but most of it was stumbling throught and just going a long with the tutorial. I tried to change some small things, but did not go to far out of the way to change and adapt the app. I think this one was a lot more of just learning the process of building an app within Swift and putting components learned through Udacity into action. The next app that I worked on was the trivia app. This one was a lot of fun. I think after stumbling through the first app and watching numerous Youtube videos, I was able to modify more and make it interesting to me by making the trivia mostly sports based through the API. The last app was a financial application. This one was really more of a budgeting app and it was really simple to build. In hind sight, I should have just started with this app. This one was the most simple and I was able to make the most modifications to it to make it more of my own because of what I learned with the previous two applicaitons. The reason that I should have started with this one is that it was very straight forward and would have been easier than diving into two applications that needed APIs. Overall I think that these four milestones gave me a great background and I really enjoyed learning Swift. 

The biggest thing that the project did was it taught me a good strategy to learn new programming languages. Swift was a lot of fun and I think that it is somehting that I plan to keep pursuing but as I start my career in this world, I know that learning new languages and mastering the ones that I know is something that I am going to have to continue to work at. What this class and project did is it gave me the tools and processes that I need to continue to grow and learn both with new programming languages and ones that I already have a good background in. What I learned from this is that I enjoy hands on learning. What I enjoy is creating something that I am passionate about. Creating applications that I can see and use has been a lot of fun for me. I really enjoy Swift and I think that it is a good skill to have for the future. I also really enjoy watching videos on Swift. Youtube proved to be a great free source to learn this new language and I think that it is also a good way to keep up to date with things when it comes to programming languages because new videos are always being uploaded. The last part of this class that I did was explore more about iOS development as a career and what an iOS developer or Swift Software engineer needs to have in their skill set. I think that this gave me good knowledge to a new side of software engineering and potential career fields after this program. 

The biggest learning take away that I have from this is that what may seem to be a big task that will take a lot of work can be tackled by breaking it up and finding something that you can enjoy which makes the learning piece a lot easier. While I am no expert when it comes to Swift, this project and class gave me a strong foundation and helped me to find something I am very interested in. 

[Home](README.md)
